Introducing the Z88

The Z88 is a unique computer for several reasons.

For the first time in a machine of its size and portability it offers you a
powerful productivity tool, PipeDream, capable of tackling the most
demanding applications and providing all the capabilities normally only
obtained by working with separate programs on much larger computers;
It combines in one program most facilities provided by the best word
processors, database programs, and spreadsheets.

To complement PipeDream, the Z88 comes complete with a range of
utility programs, designed to anticipate any task you might wish to
perform in the home or office; these include a clock, calculator, diary and
organiser I and an alarm reminder.

The Z88 also avoids the problems of storing documents and applications
long-term by providing battery-powered circuitry which will retain all
the information in the computer for over a year while it is switched off.
The batteries also maintain the correct time and date in an intemal clock
and calendar.

In addition, communication with larger computers is catered for by built-
in transfer programs.

In no time, the Z88 will revolutionise your life by making it possible for
you to work with the tools you need, wherever and whenever you want.

Conventions in this manual
In this manual, anything displayed on the Z88 screen is shown in a
computer typeface, such as

     Name of file to save

Anything that you should type at the keyboard is shown in a different
typeface to designate the keyboard keys; for example

You are invited to a party

The keys on the keyboard with a special function are shown in the text
with key legends. So, for example, if you are asked to type

myfile [ENTER]

you would actually type the letters m y f i 1 e and then press the
[ENTER].

In general, references to menu headings are in bold caps; for example
LAYOUT

References to individual commands are in bold; for example Save or Load.

References to options displayed by a command are in italics; for
example Save only range of columns.
